HTOPIC CLEARWINWindow "Clearcut" uneven-age management silviculture
\fbClearcut\f0

This window is used to specify the elements of the clearcut
silvicultural method.  It is found under the Even-aged:Regeneration
Harvesting action.

Use the text box at the top of this window to change the name of the 
component if you want a different name than that presented as a default.

Use the elements of the scrolling part of the window to set the
parameters of the clearcut.  

For information about how to schedule the clearcut, see 
\lSCHEDOBJSubview:Scheduling Actions by Year or Condition\l

Set the diameter of the smallest tree cut.

Set the number and minimum diameter of the legacy trees.  Legacy trees are
left in the stand.  The number of legacy actually left by FVS partly
depends on the minimum diameter you specify.  Use the radio buttons to
select how you wish to specify this diameter.

The first radio button causes the diameter to be a fixed size that is
set using the horizontal slide bar.  The second causes FVS to pick the
diameter limit by finding a the diameter of the tree nearest a
percentile point in the tree distribution.  You can select the
percentile point using a list button.

FVS will not keep any legacy trees if there are none greater than the
fixed diameter.  By specifying the diameter limit as a function of the
tree distribution, you are assured that there will be some trees above
that percentile point.  However, there may not be more trees above the
percentile point than you requested.  If there are over the number,
FVS cuts the excess.

Press \f1Ok\f0 to accept the selections and close the window.  

Press \f1Reset\f0 to reset the window to the state it was in when it
was opened.

Press \f1Cancel\f0 to close the window without creating a component
(or without saving changes to a component you are editing).

Use the \f1Extras\f0 menu and the \f1View Component Keywords\f0 item
if you want to view the FVS keywords generated for the component.

