HTOPIC EXPRESSWindow "Edit Expressions" logical keywords expression
\fbEdit Expressions\f0

Use this window to edit logical expressions, \bkeywordS:keywords\b
that use the FVS \bparmS:parms\b feature, or to edit a set of keywords
that Suppose can not identify as to being created using a different
Suppose window.

Important Notes:  

1.  This window does not protect you from creating FVS keywords or
expressions that are incorrect.

2.  \bkrecordS:Keyword records\b are limited to 80 characters and this
tool does not enforce this limit.

3.  The FVS Event Monitor requires an ampersand ("&") as a
continuation character.  This character is not supplied by Suppose,
you must insure that it is present when it is needed.

Use the \f1text box\f0 at the top of this window to change the name of
the component if you want a different name than that presented as a
default.

Type or edit the keywords you desire in the \f1text edit\f0 box
located in the main part of the window.  The \f1Edit\f0 menu is
available to cut, copy, or paste text from different applications or
within this applications if you need to.

Several lists exist on this window that provide you handy access to
FVS variables, operators, functions, and important constants.  For FVS
functions, Suppose provides you with a tool useful in setting the
function parameters.

\f1Variables\f0 automatically maintained by the FVS Event Monitor are
in a list button located below the variables label.  If you select a
variable, its definition is displayed below the text edit box.  You
can browse through the variables until you find the one you want to
use, if any.

Suppose provides you with a list of variables that can be legally
used with the keyword you are editing.  For example, say you are
editing an FVS thinning keyword.  Variables defined after thinning,
like ABA (after thin basal area), are not useful in expressions
associated with this keyword and are therefore not listed.  Suppose
does not have perfect rules for listing or not listing variables.  As
stated above, insuring that the expressions are correct is left to
you.

Once you have found a variable you want to use, you can either type it
into the expression, or have Suppose \f1Insert\f0 it into the
expression at the location pointed to by the "I" carrot in the text
edit box.  To do so, press the \f1Insert\f0 button at the bottom of
the window (this button only active when you have selected an item
that can be inserted).

\f1Operators\f0 that can be used in the expression are present in the
list button located below the operators label.  This button works like
the variables button.  You can browse through the operators, pick one
you want, and \f1Insert\f0 it into the expression.  Only operators
that can be used with the object you are editing are presented.  For
example, the logical operators are not presented with "parms" or
"compute" expressions but are when editing logical expressions.

\f1FVS Functions\f0 and \f1Math Functions\f0 are next.  The list of
functions are located in the list button below the "label" list
button.  Here is how to use this combination set of two list buttons.
First, select a category of functions you desire using the list button
that contains the word "FVS Functions" when the window opens.  The
choices are either FVS Functions or Math Functions.  Second, select
the function you desire using the second list button.  Once a
selection is made, you can \f1Insert\f0 it into your expression.  You
must then insert the correct function argument.  For example, if you
want the \fcSqrt()\f0 function to take the square root of a number,
you must enter the argument between the parentheses.

Press \f1Set Function Arguments\f0 to set the arguments to FVS
Functions.  Using this facility will provide you with a set of
input fields you can use to set the arguments to the function.  This
is a very handy feature as many of the FVS Functions have complicated
argument lists with many potential settings.

Press \f1Finished Setting Function\f0 when you have completed making
the settings you desire and the completed function will be presented
to you.  It will not be automatically inserted into your expression.

Press \f1Insert\f0 to insert the finished function into the
expression.

\f1Species\f0, \f1Forests\f0, and \f1Habitat types/Plant
Associations\f0, all have corresponding codes that are useful in
expressions.  Select the category of these codes in the "label" list
button and then select the item you desire in the list button below 
the one that displays the category.  Press \f1Insert\f0 to insert the 
corresponding code into your expression.

Press \f1Ok\f0 to save the \bcomponenT:component\b.

Press \f1Cancel\f0 if you want to close without saving.


 
