
HTOPIC SIMNOTESWindow "Edit Simulation Notes" comments notes 
\fbEditSimulation Notes\f0

You can add notes to the \bsimfilE:simulation file\b that are output 
as \bFVs:FVS\b comments.

There are two categories of simulation notes that can be entered or
edited using this window.

Press the \f1Simulation Notes\f0 radio button to enter or edit text
that is output with the first stand's \bkeywordS:keywords\b.  This is
at the beginning of the FVS output file.

Press the \f1Component Notes\f0 radio button to enter or edit text
that is attached to an existing \bcomponenT:component\b.  You can pick
the component using the list button to the right.  These notes are
output in the FVS output file along with the keywords that represent
the component.

Note that if you delete the component the attached notes are deleted
as well (deleting a component can be done with the
\lEDITSimulationFile:Edit Simulation File\l window).

FVS limits comments to 80 characters per line.  This limit is enforced
by Suppose using automatic word wrap.

In the future, Suppose will automatically generate initial text for
notes that are attached to some components.  This is a planned feature
designed to facilitate automatic run narrative generation.  The
narrative will be created, viewed, printed, and/or transfered to other
documents using the \lGENERATEReports:Generate Reports\l window.  When
this facility is working, you will still be able to edit the text
associated with any component using this window.

Use the \f1Edit\f0 menu item to cut, copy, paste, and delete text.

Press \f1Ok\f0 to save the notes currently being edited and close the
window.

Press \f1Save\f0 to save the notes currently being edited.  Note that
\f1Save\f0 is automatic when you switch between Simulation Notes and
Component Notes, or if you change from one component to another.

Press \f1Reset\f0 to change the notes currently being edited to the
way they were before they were last saved.

