----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chapter 2--Data Structures Part 1: RunStream, Stands, Groups, and Components

                   Date of Last Revision: December 10, 1997
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Class RunStream holds pointers to all the stands, groups, and
components.  There is only one instance, it is created in appdoc.cpp
as needed.  The pointer to it is in SpGlobal.

RunSteam contains collections that make up the elements of a .key file
and related items.  Since .key files are made up of stands, groups,
components, selected post processors, and the like, it is natural that
these items are in the RunStream class.

RunStream has member functions that read and write keyword files, add
and delete components, stands, and groups.  It is a complicated part
of Suppose.  All interactions with this data structure are handled
with this class' member functions.

Note two member collections called subsetGroups and subsetStands.
These collections contain pointers to the current stand or group.
Suppose only allows one stand or one group to be current at a time.
These are collections rather than single pointers to "the" current
stand or group because an early idea was that Suppose would allow
users the ability to define any collection of stands, groups, or both
to be "current".  This is the reason for the term "currentSubset".  It
is an obsolete term that refers to the current group or current stand.

Stands, Groups, and Components all inherent form CStringRWC.
Therefore they can be in any RWCollection and be inserted into any
list box or list button.  The methods used to create these new species
of collectable objects (in this case, collectable strings) are
detailed in the Rogue Wave programmers guide.  You can also see how it
is done by reading the stand.hpp and stand.cpp.

See runstr.hpp for more information on all the related classes and
functions.

---------------------------
Related files:
---------------------------

runstr.?pp
group.?pp
compon.?pp
stand.?pp
spglobal.?pp
readcomp.?pp

---------------------------
Thoughts:
---------------------------

Besides the obsolete term of current subset, I also point out the a
few other flaws in the program organization.

1. Several member functions are currently public that should be
private.  The friendship relationships between classes should be
defined to protect the data.

2. Streams should be used rather than the stdio.h methods.

3. The program that writes components is very complex.  The rules for
building extension-start keywords, like RRIN, Estab, and so on, and
the rules for building End and EndIF keywords are complicated and not
well understood by reading the code.  This is a documentation and
coding problem that should be fixed.  On the otherhand, the code works.

4. The are two misnamed functions: PutComponentOnClipBoard and
GetComponentFromClipBoard.  They are misnamed in that they don't
really use "the" clip board but simply a spot RunStream's memory.
Also, this pseudo-clip board should actually be a list of deleted
items so that a user can pick from any one of the items in the list of
deleted items.  The graphical elements to the Edit Simulation File
window would need adjustment to allow for this functionality.