---------------------------------------------------------------------------  
                      Chapter 7--The Management windows

                   Date of Last Revision: February 9, 1998
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The management window is the one that opens when the user presses the
"Select Management Actions" button on the main window.

The class is CMngWin:CcatWin:CWwindow:CWindow.  CWwindow provides base
window support and relates the help topics to menu items.  CcatWin
provides a "Category-Item" relationship in twin list boxes.  The first
list is a list of categories, the second a list of items in each
category.  The user selects an item, and the window that supports that
item is launched.

However, CcatWin is an abstract class in that it does not provide this
behavior to a specific list of categories and items.  For that,
CMngWin is used.  This class processes the list in the parameter file
stored as MSText mgmtCategories.  Each item is related to an actual
object name in this list.

Note that the source code in CMngWin must be updated if new windows
are written to provide functionality beyond those CMngWin can open.

Once an item is selected by the user, the Window that supports the
management action is opened.  These windows are either based on the
GPSB or class CMgtClassWindow:CWwindow:CWindow 

This class provides the bases for all the management windows that are
built without using the GPSB.  It has the built in tools necessary to
handle creating components and relating them to condition components.
It can deal with a component that is being edited verses one that is
being created.  The code for these various states is complicated.
Future management windows should also be based on CMgtClassWindow.
For a recent example of this window, see
PlantNaturalWin:CMgtClassWindow:CWwindow:CWindow in the files
plantwin.?pp. 

---------------------------
Related files:
---------------------------

cmngwin.?pp
ccatwin.?pp
cmgtclas.?pp
clearwin.?pp
seedwin.?pp
sheltwin.?pp
thinwin.?pp
plantwin.?pp

mgmtcats.prm

---------------------------
Thoughts:
---------------------------

1.  The "Select Model Outputs" and "Select Ecosystem Components"
components of Suppose should be build to work like the management
window.  That is, each should be based on a class that directly
inherits from CcatWin:CWwindow:CWindow.  The parms file can then be
used to load the categories and action lists and relate them to
actions.  The GPSB could be used to build some of the windows and
CMgtClassWindow can be the basis of others.
