---------------------------------------------------------------------------  
           Chapter 10--Data Structures Part 4: External stands

                Date of Last Revision: September 24, 1998
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Describes the objects used to hold information about stands that are
not part of the simulation (read directly from the stand list files).

---------------------------
Objects that hold the data
---------------------------

class AllLocationData holds two lists, one is a list of locations
(read from the suppose.loc file) and the other is a list of groups
(created by reading all of the .slf files referenced in the
suppose.loc file.

Each location is stored as an instance of class ExLocation:CStringRWC.
One of the data members is a list of all the stands at the location.
Another data member is a list of all the groups that are represented
at the location.

Each stand is stored as an instance of class ExStand:CStringRWC.  The
stands membership in groups is stored in a member list.

Each group is stored as an instance of class ExGroup:CStringRWC.  The
locations where at least one stand exists that is a member of the
group are stored in a member list.

The usage notes in alllocd.hpp provide information on how this set of
classes are used.

---------------------------
Select Simulations Stands
---------------------------

When the Select Simulations Stands window is opened (class
SelectSimStandWin:CWindow), an instance of AllLocationData is
created.  The data in this structure are used to load the pick lists
in the window and to convert chosen ExStands into Stands.    

---------------------------
Related files:
---------------------------

alllocd.?pp
selectsi.?pp

---------------------------
Thoughts:
---------------------------

1.  Some of the data, like the contents of the .slf records, are
stored as character vectors.  They should be stored as CStringRW data.
The fact that they are character vectors (in fact, simply pointers to
char), means that the data are not easily manipulated.  This caused
some coding errors in early releases and makes changing the program
difficult as coding errors could easily creep back into the code if
changes are made.

2.  The "Stand Locations Editor" and "Stand List File Editor" also
store the information about locations and stands.  The classes used
those cases are separate and different from the classes used in this
case.  This was done because each data element in the files needed to
be editable (see file editslf.hpp and not how class
SLFRecord:CStringRWC is constructed).  In the AllLocationData class
structure, the data are not editable.  The editors were written over a
year after the AllLocationData were constructed so a consistent
approach was not designed at the start of development.

